And then the man whom Tarzan had seen drop them there
turned to sneak from the room, but to his annoyance he
found the exit barred by a tall, gray-eyed stranger.

"Pardon," said the man brusquely, attempting to pass to one side.

"Wait," said Tarzan.

"But why, monsieur?" exclaimed the other petulantly.
"Permit me to pass, monsieur."

"Wait," said Tarzan.  "I think that there is a matter in here
that you may doubtless be able to explain."

The fellow had lost his temper by this time, and with a low
oath seized Tarzan to push him to one side.  The ape-man
but smiled as he twisted the big fellow about and, grasping
him by the collar of his coat, escorted him back to the table,
struggling, cursing, and striking in futile remonstrance.
It was Nikolas Rokoff's first experience with the muscles that
had brought their savage owner victorious through encounters
with Numa, the lion, and Terkoz, the great bull ape.

The man who had accused De Coude, and the two others who
had been playing, stood looking expectantly at the count.
Several other passengers had drawn toward the scene of the
altercation, and all awaited the denouement.

"The fellow is crazy," said the count.  "Gentlemen, I implore
that one of you search me."

"The accusation is ridiculous."  This from one of the players.

"You have but to slip your hand in the count's coat pocket
and you will see that the accusation is quite serious," insisted
the accuser.  And then, as the others still hesitated to do so:
"Come, I shall do it myself if no other will," and he stepped
forward toward the count.

"No, monsieur," said De Coude.  "I will submit to a search
only at the hands of a gentleman."

"It is unnecessary to search the count.  The cards are in
his pocket.  I myself saw them placed there."

All turned in surprise toward this new speaker, to behold
a very well-built young man urging a resisting captive toward
them by the scruff of his neck.

"It is a conspiracy," cried De Coude angrily.  "There are no
cards in my coat," and with that he ran his hand into his
pocket.  As he did so tense silence reigned in the little group.
The count went dead white, and then very slowly he withdrew
his hand, and in it were three cards.

He looked at them in mute and horrified surprise, and slowly
the red of mortification suffused his face.  Expressions of
pity and contempt tinged the features of those who looked
on at the death of a man's honor.

"It is a conspiracy, monsieur."  It was the gray-eyed stranger
who spoke.  "Gentlemen," he continued, "monsieur le count
did not know that those cards were in his pocket.  They were
placed there without his knowledge as he sat at play.
From where I sat in that chair yonder I saw the reflection of it
all in the mirror before me.  This person whom I just intercepted
in an effort to escape placed the cards in the count's pocket."

De Coude had glanced from Tarzan to the man in his grasp.

"MON DIEU, Nikolas!" he cried.  "You?"

-- The Return of Tarzan, by Edgar Rice Burroughs 1913

